my name is carl gold
chief data scientist at zora zora is a
subscription management platform
my phd is in biology but you know now
i'm a subscription economy grew
all companies can benefit from fighting
churn with data
when you look at a sas product they're
typically tracking
dozens or even hundreds of events if you
can find a few key relationships that's
what really makes the difference
churn is hard to fight because it's
owned by different parts of your
organization
so the churn fighters in your business
they need insights from the data
it's a multi-team effort the product
creators the customer support people
they're all thinking about this
in general more observations can never
hurt you
you're not gonna find easy fixes for
churn you really have to deliver more
value
[Music]
thank you so much the sasser team for
making that it actually makes my
my nerdy data scientist life look kind
of
cool which is you know quite
unbelievable
if you think about it but hey it's kind
of true so my name is carl gold welcome
to today's
session at saster scale fighting churned
with data is the name of the session
i'm the chief data scientist at a
company called zora and i'll be telling
you more about all this in seconds
and at the bottom is my twitter handle
carl 24k
so just to dive right in i'm gonna dive
right in with the basics i'm gonna level
set for everyone
i don't know if i need to do this at
saster but i have to i start out all my
presentations with a little intro
you know what is churn uh if you don't
know
churn is customers quitting and it comes
from
the term the churn rate which means the
percentage of customers
which is quitting or dropping out on you
you typically measure the churn rate in
a month or a year time period and we'll
see more of that
in just a second so
turn is also now a noun and a verb it's
not
just a rape so you can say the customer
churned
or make a report of last quarter's churn
or even a churn report
um it's also you know you can also say
oh i'm churning from hulu or netflix so
there's a lot more uses for
churn now for those of us who are
already in the sas business
but the fundamental thing that you all
must know is that churn cancels your
growth
because churn is your new customers
you know dropping out the door um so
did i really have to tell you all this
at saster scale i think this is one
conference where uh i don't have to
explain what churn is and what we're
here for
although to finish off the level setting
i want to say that
please feel free to ask questions you
know may i don't want to set a high bar
maybe if this is
any of this is new for you or if you
have any in-depth questions
you know please ask them in the q a i'm
not going to try to answer questions
during
the presentation but we have a lot of
time for
questions at the end so that's the
basic level set on churn let me tell you
a little bit more about my background
you know and why
i'm here talking to you about churn uh
what is fighting churn with data
that's actually a book that i wrote and
it's just been published it's just come
out in hard copies
it's actually a book of data science and
analytics it's not really
it's not focused on the business case
but it's all about
churn reducing strategies um and it
includes step-by-step
instructions and open source code so
it's technic really a book for your tech
team
um but still it's based on
my learnings over the years as zora's
chief data scientist
where i've worked on churn with many
different companies
so this book is really all about the
lessons i learned and
to help you avoid the mistakes that i
made
along the way fighting churn data so
just
really briefly if you don't know what
zora is
zora is a subscription management
platform we say our customers from
avalara to zoom
i'm not really here to talk to you about
zora i just want to
by way of explanation you know how did i
come to work on churn for so many
different companies
it was because of my role as chief data
scientist at zora
it brought me into contact with all
these companies we have a product at
zora that was allowing them to analyze
their churn
so that was made my role unique in
comparison to a data scientist
at a typical company where they only
work on churn for their own company
as data scientist at zora i worked on
churn for
many many companies and that was where i
got the experiences
that let me you know write the book so
i'm going to go back
to kind of level setting and just talk
about churn rates which is something
that people often want to know about
so this is showing what typically
typical monthly churn rates
look like and you can see there's a big
range so this is based on
zora data um there's a big range of
churn rates and it depends
a lot on the business model and company
maturity
for example we generally see that
consumer products
have significantly higher churn rates
than business products or b2b
products um overall we see a median of
around two percent
for zora customers and you do see
different
numbers coming out of different sources
um
for example another you know there are
other subscription management
platforms more geared towards small
businesses
and those typically have you know
somewhat higher churn rates just because
of the nature of being a small business
um
so for details on this data we published
it in a report from zora called the
zora subscription economy index and you
can find it well it's pretty easy to
google for
subscription economy index so this is
the typical monthly churn rates and this
is
how you're going to look at churn if
you're a consumer company
because you take you sell your chur your
product in
typically monthly or short term
contracts so you look at monthly churn
if you're a business to business company
or you're selling annual contracts
you want to look at the annual churn
rate and this is showing
how those monthly churns translate into
the annual
loss to your growth um and so you can
see
um the median churn of two percent per
month
translates into 22 percent per year
5.7 per month translates into
50 per year so that's if you're in that
that group that's half your growth
walking out the door
uh each month so for zora customers the
median annual churn is 22
um as you can see here um
and as i mentioned this is typically how
you would look at your churn if you're a
b
to b company so if you're lucky and
you're in the top half of this
group you know above the media and
that's around 20 percent of your growth
disappearing
every year so churn is a huge problem
you know for all companies
i'll mention that public companies are
kind of like the best
in class for churn is typically around
or less per year and that's what you see
kind of in the top customers
uh analyzed in this cohort so like i
said before where you are
on this chart it really depends a lot on
what type of business business you're
doing
but i have seen that all companies that
every level of churn that they start out
with
if they do make an effort to use their
data
to fight churn there's really you know a
big benefit
that that comes from it okay
so another thing people have been asking
me a lot about
is what happened this year uh due to
cobit 19
and here is some data on that this is
showing
the annual churn rates again this is
from the zora subscription economy index
based on
uh customers on the zora platform we saw
churn peaked in q1 at 27 percent
uh average annual rate and that is the
highest
churn rate this is these are annualized
churn rates shown here
um on a quarterly basis and that is
actually the highest churn rate we've
seen in quite a while
27 i i don't think it's been that high
yeah since like
2015 or something but it's not that high
that's my first reaction i mean sure
it's the highest rate we've seen in a
while but
i mean really is this is that as bad as
it gets and
churn fell back down again in q2 and q3
coming back down to the typical levels
from 2019 so the impact on churn overall
from kobit
19 has not been that strong now that's
not to say there are not some businesses
that have been very disrupted
by what's going on this year
particularly companies
that where their product involves you
know face-to-face meetings or travel
live events those companies have
obviously had much more difficult times
but there's also been
um as you know a rush to adopt digital
services and products and so many people
are working from home and so many
companies are going digital so there's
you know contrasting trends you know in
churn and overall the net effect
uh in the sas market has been pretty
muted
um so that's how covert has impacted
sure now let's stop
talking about the churn numbers and talk
about the actual
churn reducing strategies this is what
fighting churn with data
uh is really about it's data-driven
churn fighting
strategies so the this is the
the top four churn fighting strategies
that i see companies use
and that um i provide analysis for
the first one is making a great product
did you did you realize that would be a
churn fighting strategy
well having a great product is actually
your best churn fighting strategy
and you can use the data that you
collect to make a great product
without relying on biased surveys
surveys of your customers are great but
they mostly
the customers who love you or hate you
are the ones you know who fill it out
but using data in the way i'm going to
explain
will let you see what are your best
product features
uh in a way that uses all of your
customer data and
gets information from all of your
customers
okay next is marketing
or particularly engagement marketing
where you re-engage with your existing
customers and here the key is to use the
data
to make the commun communication to your
customers
actually valuable actually telling them
about
features that they don't know about or
telling them
tips and tricks for features that they
really value
that's the kind of engagement that your
customers want and not
you spamming them okay next is customer
success
i love being at sastra scale because i
don't have to explain what customer
success is there's been a lot of great
presentations
about customer success these past couple
of days
and so using your data is a gr is the
best way to see
what customers need training and
onboarding
and when do they need it so again you
want to take a targeted approach
with your training and onboarding um by
using data to get the customers that
really
that really need it now the fourth way
to fight churn is actually in your
pricing
and here what i tell people you're
trying to do
is give customers value with a
multi-tiered
pricing plan but don't give discounts a
lot of people
mistakenly think that giving out
discounts
is how you reduce churn and there are
examples of that mostly from the cable
companies where you call up and say you
want to cancel they throw you a discount
well sas leaders if you give out
discounts to reduce
churn you're undermining your pricing so
what you want to do
is use your data and design a
multi-tiered pricing strategy
where people can get value at different
levels
of involvement with your product now
there's actually a fifth way to
reduce churn which i talk about in the
book and that's to find
lookalikes uh of your best customers so
figure out where your best customers are
are coming from and really double down
on those channels
i'm not gonna go into that today and i
consider that kind of a lesser way of
reducing churn
because they're you're not saving your
current customers you're just looking
for new better customers
i'm not saying you shouldn't do that but
again it's
uh finding better look-alike channels is
is kind of an extra method we're not
going to go into today but it is in the
book that i wrote
so let's see so these are the main ways
to reduce
churn and you know how does data
contribute to them is the next subject
that we're going to talk about
well first actually let me back up and
say why churn is hard to fight
and you know why do you need to use all
this data
the first thing about churn is that even
with the best data
it's going to be hard to predict churn
is
relatively rare for most companies also
it's based on the subjective opinions
and thoughts of your customers which you
don't have
you can't read their minds and even
about the objective facts relating to
your customers you're going to have
limited
information for example you'll never
know what their ability to pay
is you know if you're a b2b uh product
you don't know what your customers
uh profit and loss is unless you're an
accounting product but that's a
special case and lastly churn is always
really
random which you can see in your own
behavior probably the last time you were
churning from a product like netflix or
hulu
you probably weren't watching it for a
while you got sick of it
but it probably took you a while to make
up your mind or maybe to choose a
replacement product
so even when churn is pretty obvious it
tends to be
hard to predict so churn is hard to
predict but even worse
churn is hard to prevent these are
customers they already use your product
they know your product
and you actually have to deliver more
value there's no silver bullets
you know for churn reduction if you know
the expression this is a problem for
lead bullets not silver bullets
which means you have to make an ongoing
investment
uh get down in the trenches and fight
with it it's not just going to be like a
once and done
you know solution now also the other
thing that makes churn hard is that it's
a multi-team effort
and here if you think about those churn
reduction strategies that i was telling
you
you know in the previous slides um
i said make a great product market
remarket to your customers customer
success and support
pricing and packaging i just named every
department in your company
hello i mean if you're big enough to
have departments but that's like the
entire company
and all those people have different
methods and different tools
and different ways that they think about
churn and so there's going to be
communication and alignment issues
when you try to tackle churn it might be
you know finger pointing i thought they
were going to do it
or different definitions of churn even
or you know
different ideas about what are the most
the best
strategies to pursue all right so now
that we've talked about how why it's
hard to fight let's talk about
how you fight it with data a lot of
people ask me
if you should use ai for churn and there
are
some ai use cases i mean they ask
because by ai i mean artificial
intelligence if you don't know the
acronym i'm sure everyone does now
and since i'm a data scientist people
always expect i mainly work with ai now
i do work with ai
um but not so much for churn
ai is a little helpful for churn but
it's not
really the focus i mentioned that
churn can be hard to predict um and it's
hard to use the data so
you would really only be doing this if
you were an
organization which is already advanced
in analytics
but the problem it's it's not just that
it's hard to predict churn and you need
to be
very good with your analytics it's that
the interventions we talked about
all need to be targeted and designed to
particular
segments there's no one-size-fits-all
churn intervention that you're just
gonna
unleash on all your customers um so
whatever intervention you're going to
make you're going to design it
using the behavior and demographics that
are particular
to that customer segment um
and yeah so ai it helps with some use
cases if you want to
figure out your most at risk customers
with very high degree of accuracy
that's when you're going to use ai but
i'm mostly going to talk about a
different set of methods
more traditional analytic based methods
and really what i'm going to focus on
telling you about is your
customer metrics um how do you fight
term with data it's all about the
customer metrics and by
customer metric i mean a measurement of
your customers that you're going to make
individually for all the customers so i
don't mean an aggregate measurement
i mean at the individual customer level
you're going to make metrics
and i want you to scientifically design
them and that's what i
teach and if you do this those metrics
will be easy to understand
and usable by all those different
departments in your company
and the metrics actually predict churn
and retention
and without using ai if you do
well-designed customer metrics
every single metric in your arsenal will
predict churn and retention and i'll
show you examples of this
very very soon two slides away from case
study data
showing how this works so the customer
metrics that you make are going to
enable you to do targeted segmentation
when you take the interventions like you
know marketing
or you know onboarding training um and
of course if you make
intuitive metrics like this it'll be
usable by all your teams and it'll
become
a focus of communication between the
teams
will be the metrics so that's actually
the background i think i'm about halfway
through the prepared material
now i'm now going to go into case
studies i'm going to introduce
some companies that you may know about
first up is broadly broadly.com broadly
is a sas
product and it ensures that businesses
look great online and are found and
chosen by potential customers
so what that means i guess in in
layman's terms
is that broadly helps businesses manage
their online reviews
and so when broadly collects data the
data that they collect
includes events which are things like a
customer promoter
which means that a customer made a
review and it was positive
or another event might be a customer
detractor
that's an event that they track in
broadly system among many many others
and a customer detractor is a customer
who actually gave a negative review and
from these
events which are kind of the underlying
data you make
the customer metrics and here i'm
mentioning some basic metrics which
would be
for broadly how many promoters per month
did a particular customer get
and you would update that metric you
know continuously over time as you watch
your customers
and another metric might be how many
detractors uh did the customers get per
month
now i said that you can use even simple
metrics to predict churn and retention
and now let's look at an example this is
showing how you can use
a simple customer metric to predict
churn
and it's using a technique that i call a
cohort analysis
now you might heard of cohort analysis
before
and it was probably based on using
cohorts of customers that signed up in a
particular
month or quarter for example and that
would be a time-based cohort analysis
i'm going to look at time-based cohort
analysis in a little bit
but this is actually a metric based
cohort analysis
so all the customers have a metric which
is their customer promoters per month
metric that i just mentioned and we
group the customers
based on that metric so the bottom
cohort
uh is the first decile or the first the
bottom 10 percent
are those customers that have the lowest
promoters per month
then the next group will be those that
have somewhat higher promoters per month
and that's what's shown in this slide uh
on the horizontal
dimension you can see the average
promoters per month
in each of the cohorts so the bottom
cohort has just about
one or zero promoters per month and the
top cohort has
on average more than 80 promoters per
month now on the vertical
dimension of this graph i'm showing you
the relative
churn rate so this is not the actual
churn rates for broadly
as you can see there's no numbers in the
scale and that's for a protection of the
strategic
interests of my case study customers
they have all generously allowed me to
show you this kind of data from their
real
live businesses but we're not going to
show you their churn rates
but the bottom of this axis is the zero
so you can tell on a relative scale how
churn decreases and what you can see
here
is that customers with more than around
15 promoters per month
are churning at about one-third the rate
of those customers that have
around zero or one and that after around
15 promoters per month the churn rate
isn't really affected
so it's very easy from a chart like this
to go to
answer the question what's a healthy
customer in this case a healthy customer
would be one with more than around
15 promoters per month and any customer
with less than that
they would be a reasonable target for
customer success
training or something that will help
them get more promoters
and so this is the first example we're
going to look at of one of these
curves where you see how churn decreases
with increasing
use of the product and to me these are
the bread and butter of churn analysis
you're going to see a lot of these
charts
and you'll see they all have this very
similar shape
where uh churn decreases from a very
high level for the lowest cohort
the cohort that uses the product the
least and then it tends to flatten out
at higher levels
let's look at another example now which
is actually for
the customer detractor metric from
broadly so this is how many bad reviews
the customer gets
in the last month or it's an average so
in an average month
and again you can see that the customers
with the least
bad reviews churn the least they have
the highest churn rate
and the more bad reviews they get the
churn rate goes down
until it kind of levels out when you're
above around
one customer detractor per month now
that all
sounds well and good but isn't something
wrong here
aren't detractors and bad reviews bad
why does that make people not
churn from broadly you'd think that a
product that's giving
feeding you up a lot of bad reviews
would make you churn
well to understand this we actually have
to go to
a more advanced kind of metric and
that's what we'll look at next we're
going to look at
similar analysis but now we're going to
look at churn versus
the percentage of bad reviews or what i
call here
the detractor rate and this is an
example of how you can use a more
advanced
metric to disentangle the effects
in a disengaging behavior so what this
shows is that the bottom cohort in
percentage of bad reviews
shown here on the left has practically a
zero churn rate there's hardly
any turn among those who get zero bad
reviews
but if you go up to the top cohort that
has more than 25
reviews there's a much much higher churn
rate
so now what you're seeing is that too
many detractors for this product
really is a churn risk but you have to
look at it on a percentage basis
or a relative basis now why is that
it's because this last chart where we
only look at the
the count of bad reviews is missing
something
it's actually missing how big the
business is that's using broadly and how
many reviews they get
so a big business using broadly is gonna
get a lot of reviews they're gonna get a
lot of good reviews and a lot of bad
reviews
and the fact that they get a lot of well
they get the most number of bad reviews
maybe two or three per month
that's not a reason to churn because
they're doing good they're getting a lot
of good reviews
it's only a reason to churn if they get
a high percentage of bad reviews
and this is a very important technique
for
disambiguating this these kinds of
effects which applies to
all products with users that act at
different levels it's
for b2b products your big customers are
your enterprise customers who do a lot
of everything
and for consumer products you tend to
have a similar effect
with power users certain power users are
going to do a lot of everything
and they tend to turn less so when you
look at a disengaging behavior
it's important to look at it on a
relative basis and we're going to see
some more examples of this
in a few minutes but first let's kind of
wrap up the
story with by looking at broadly's top
churn fighting moves
great and priceless advice here number
one
is that the customer success managers
use the metrics to talk to the customers
so when they get on the phone with a
customer they pull up the screen i think
they have this
imported into their sales force um they
have all the most important customer
metrics so they can have a conversation
oh i see you got
you know two detractor reviews last
month and 10
promoter reviews or you know or what
what have you so it really makes it easy
to get into the conversation with the
customer when you have these kind of
metrics
next very important is to focus on the
mid-range in churn risk
ignore those most at risk since they're
probably not savable
i'm going to back up briefly here to
illustrate
if you consider this top cohort with
more than 25
bad reviews you know it might not be
worth helping them
i mean you know it could be really a
poorly run business that deserves the
bad reviews who knows
the point is if you want to help
customers focus on the mid-range in this
case they would focus on those with
between
seven and fifteen percent bad reviews
and help them reduce the number
so focus on the mid-range this applies
to almost
any measure of churn risk those who are
in that bottom cohort with the highest
churn rate they might not be worth your
effort so really look at it carefully
lastly figure out your stickiest feature
and for broadly this was integration of
the businesses booking system
they found a much lower churn rate
whenever one of their customers
integrated their
booking system so now that's a top
priority for the setup
and most businesses will have some
similar sticky features where
if the customer gets that set up it'll
really
increase the integration you know the
stickiness of your product okay gonna
move on from broadly now and look at
another case study
a company called clipfolio clipfolio
is a data analytics cloudout for
building and sharing real-time
dashboards of mission
critical company metrics and so
in english i guess you'd say they're a
bi tool you know a dashboarding tool
for company data so they have events
in their system that are things like
dashboard views and edits
and from those events the one metric
they calculate
is the active users per month another
basic metric they look at
is the account tenure which is what i
call the age of the customer
i call it account tenure so it's not
confusing with the demographic
age um of a consumer um an
advanced metric we'll look at for clip
folio which is based on the active users
is the seat utilization so that's
another
ratio there so we'll look for that in
just a minute
let's start by looking at the time-based
cohorts
based on account tenure and so this is
from the real data from clipfolio system
but this is
very typical you know for other
companies and again we're not showing
the actual churn rates here these are
churn rates on a relative scale
but you can see there's a very
significantly higher risk
in the first part of the first year
peaking at around one half a year
the churn risk comes down again in the
third quarter but is up again
at the one year renewal but for
customers that make it past the one year
renewal
churn gets much better and by year three
churn is less than half what it was uh
in the high risk period
at the front now this really shows you
where to target with the onboarding and
training
um it's in that crucial you know first
half year
and yeah every company should definitely
look at a chart like this you can find
one technique to do it using what's in
my book
um this can even be done in a
spreadsheet lots of people do this in
spreadsheets i'm not really an advocate
you know of doing this all in
spreadsheets but it is doable
but absolutely look at the churn rate
based on the length of time your
customers have been customers
okay turning back to the behavior on
clip folio
here's another very typical relationship
between product
use and churn and i say it's typical
because that standard
behavior those uh customers
in the bottom cohort in this case it's
one active user
have a much higher churn rate then you
see a rapid
decrease in churn rate in the the next
cohorts that have just a few more active
users
the healthy customer level here occurs
around
four or five active users per month
because after that the increase of
active users
up to the top cohort with around 25
average
it actually does continue to increase
churn um
so this is the case where churn
continues to decrease
at higher and higher levels of the
metric and that is because
relating to the facts we were talking
about earlier for a business to business
company it's your bigger customers that
are going to be have more active users
and more use
they're going to be more engaged big
customers are less likely to fail
and so on all these measures you're
going to see a lower churn rate
from your biggest customers which is who
you who's going to have the most active
users
however there is a better and more
nuanced way to look at this
which is actually to look at the seat
utilization
now again this is a metric which takes
out the effect of
how big the customer so it's no longer
about
are they your biggest customer or not
it's about how deeply
are they using what they've purchased
because the the number of seats
available is of course you know how the
product is sold
and this plots the active users divided
by the number of seats
and you can see it's actually a more
continuous kind of change you know
it's still the bottom cohort you know
has the highest churn rate but you don't
see that steep drop-off this is actually
a good property in one of your metrics
where you see that it distinguishes
health
more clearly across the full range
of the cohorts alright so to wrap up
clip folio let's talk about their top
churn fighting moves
number one is no discounting it wasn't
worth it
instead clipfolio reconfigured their
pricing and packaging to make a
multi-tier plan
um so that customers who only use a
little bit can still get value
and when you do that you know you might
not even keep all your customers it's
possible
there are some customers that use it so
little it's not worth giving them a plan
you know that could keep them because
you have the maintenance and overhead
cost of maintaining those customers
but anyway no discounting uh use a
tiered pricing plan is the main part of
the churn fighting move
next more active users is keys so that's
their number one account health metric
for folio and lastly they observed the
high churn risk
in early adopters and you saw that in
the churn rate
versus the left the tenure of the
customers so they got three months free
support and onboarding was how clipfolio
helped fight that all right we'll do one
more uh
case study and then we will have some
time for questions
versature is disrupting the canadian
telecom industry with cloud-based
business communication solutions
now you might be saying hold on i
thought this is saster you know why are
we looking at a telco
well this is voice over ips so modern
telcos are
by and large pretty similar to sas
companies so the lessons you see here
really do apply to even you know
non-communication
oriented sas companies but
they are communication companies so
their most common events are actually
things like
calls local calls international calls
conference calls
there's an app that goes with versature
too and so we did analyze and track the
the different app features but for this
case study we'll just focus on the calls
they're the most illustrative
so we calculate basic metrics on the
calls like the number of calls per
month and we also looked at how much
customers pay this will be the first
case study where we look at the
what the customers pay and we'll also
look at an
advanced metric cost per call based on
the payment
and the usage together so first the
basic metric
now i've told you before this is the
standard way these curves
work and and they all look like this the
bottom cohort has the highest churn rate
churn falls rapidly uh with a few more
additional cohorts till you get to the
this middle area
for versatur it's above around 2500
minutes per month of calls is their
healthy level beyond
which there's not really a reduction in
insurance
so again almost all products should show
curves like this of use of the product
versus the churn rate of the cohort for
those customers
now let's talk about the cost this is
the similar cohort analysis
but customers are grouped on what they
pay per month
and that's measured in mrr monthly
recurring revenue
i'm showing you monthly recurring
revenue on a normalized access
uh on the horizontal so this is not
actually their monthly recurring
revenues these are turned into
normalized
scores which have a zero mean and one
standard deviation now that's a data
science technique
i'm not going to go into the weeds and
explain it to you it has a lot of
benefits
which are detailed in the book but the
interesting thing here
is that the customers who pay the most
actually churn the least
um does that surprise you or does that
make sense now anyone who's
working in an established b2b company
that is monitoring their
churn is probably already going to know
this and the reason which i already
explained
earlier in the session is that your
biggest customers
are the ones who use the product the
most and they're also going to be the
ones who pay the most
so it's not actually that these
customers with above
average payments per month
it's not that they like paying more but
they're just bigger customers
now that may be true but it's not very
satisfying
it's not really the insight you're
looking for when you analyze
how much customers pay so that's where
we go to a more advanced metric
um which is shown here and again this
metric is a ratio we look at the dollars
per
call not just dollars and not just
call but the ratio of the two and then
you can see
that paying a lot does not cause churn
but paying too much does customers who
get a bad value really do churn at a
higher rate
so again this is a normalized metric
with zero mean
one standard deviations you can see the
customers with below
average cost per call here on the left
these are getting the best value and
they turn at a very low rate
however as you get up to around the
average and go above the average cost
per call you see a much
higher churn risk and especially in this
cohort
that's way above average and cost per
call
um they have a churn rate that looks
like five or six times the customer is
getting a good value
so again paying a lot doesn't cause
churn
if the customers are taking advantage
but paying too much
does and i really say any product
if you have multiple price points like
if you have customers paying different
amounts
you must do this analysis and see
uh divide the amount that your customers
pay
by the most important metrics of your
product use
i almost guarantee you'll see a really
interesting curve
like this which will help you segment
your customers
figure out who's getting a good value
who's getting a bad value
and give you some insights into you know
how you can turn it around
all right let's wrap up versature with
their top churn fighting moves
number one is identifying at risk
customers early in the product life
cycle
and that's especially true for any
product that has you know
a big setup cost you know big
implementation up front you gotta
figure out who's not getting on board
fully
um they focus on customer success in all
its forms
including you know both onboarding uh
training throughout the customer life
cycle check-ins with the customer
success managers
and when they check in their customer
really focus on value-driven
conversations
so not just talking to the customer
about how much they use the product
but talking to the customer about what a
good value it is for them
how much they're saving in comparison to
their other solutions
um so that's like taking it to another
level uh the
the metric driven conversations okay
so that wraps up the case studies we're
going to look at i'm just going to give
you a few takeaways right now
and then we'll see if we have any
questions first i want to mention some
churn
fighting tips for post covid so i said
that overall
churn has not significantly gone up this
year
although for some companies it really
has however
all customers all businesses should
re-analyze
their customer metrics and health
basically all that analysis i just
showed you like
grouping your customers into cohorts
based on metrics and looking at the
relationship to churn
it all needs to be reanalyzed now you
can't rely on your 2019 data
to tell you how customers value or don't
value
your product in 2020. there's so many
priorities have changed for customers
that you really don't need to go back to
the data and rediscover the
relationships
now if you're a b2b company this can be
really hard
if your customers are on annual
contracts
they only decide to churn or not churn
once a year
so there's it's very hard for b2b
companies you've got to do the best that
you can we're coming up to
january there will be a lot of business
software renewals
that might be the first time when you
can actually you know redo the analysis
and see
how you're about how do customers value
your product now
but really do try to do it one other tip
is for
companies that were really disrupted and
can no longer
deliver value we saw a lot of companies
hit pause on the subscription
so that the customers don't have to pay
anything because
if the product or service could no
longer deliver
i mean it helps your bottom line to keep
charging your customers but it's not
going to make them stay
so we saw a lot of customers whose
businesses were significantly disrupted
just
freeze billing uh let the customer keep
the account open but without charging
them with a promise that once
you know things pick up again hopefully
you know
they'll be back and we'll see how these
strategies play out you know we're not
it's not over yet so
look for an update on that uh from from
zora's publications next year when we
reanalyze that data
all right top takeaways from the session
today
kind of going over time but i'll just
hit them off
fighting churn is a multi-front war to
save your growth it's
churn is your growth walking out the
door and there's a lot of different
things you can do about it
and no one of them is enough you kind of
got to be operating on multiple fronts
to turn turn around
the main churn reducing strategies we
looked at are product imper
improvements and you use your data to
find what works without surveys
engagement marketing which is
communicating to customers
that really gives them value by using
their data to
to guess what it is that they need to
know customer success
onboarding and training reaching out to
the right customers at the right time
and lastly pricing to deliver value
tiered plans not discounts which that
undermines your pricing strategy
now customer metrics are the focus of
using
data to fight churn they provide
actionable insight and they allow you to
align your different teams
um they enable smart segmentation so all
of your churn interventions are actually
targeted at the customers
that will uh it'll make the most
difference
and you can predict churn without using
ai
now ai is a valuable technique if you
have all of your analytics basics
covered
um there are good use cases for ai
there's more details about that in the
book
lastly i gave you the pro tip uh many of
the most powerful metrics for
understanding your customers are going
to be ratios or rates
because that lets you disambiguate the
effect of the size of the customer or
whether they're a casual or a power user
effect by looking at percentages i'll
close by saying thank you and just drop
in my my twitter handle again
carl 24k please follow me for updates on
churn
data science and the subscription
[Music]
economy
you